README.md, before:

# Google Drive server

This MCP server integrates with Google Drive to allow listing, reading, and searching files, as well as the ability to read and write to Google Sheets.

This project includes code originally developed by Anthropic, PBC, licensed under the MIT License from [this repo](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/tree/main/src/gdrive).

## Components

### Tools

- **gdrive_search**

  - **Description**: Search for files in Google Drive.
  - **Input**:
    - `query` (string): Search query.
    - `pageToken` (string, optional): Token for the next page of results.
    - `pageSize` (number, optional): Number of results per page (max 100).
  - **Output**: Returns file names and MIME types of matching files.

- **gdrive_read_file**

  - **Description**: Read contents of a file from Google Drive.
  - **Input**:
    - `fileId` (string): ID of the file to read.
  - **Output**: Returns the contents of the specified file.

- **gsheets_read**

  - **Description**: Read data from a Google Spreadsheet with flexible options for ranges and formatting.
  - **Input**:
    - `spreadsheetId` (string): The ID of the spreadsheet to read.
    - `ranges` (array of strings, optional): Optional array of A1 notation ranges (e.g., `['Sheet1!A1:B10']`). If not provided, reads the entire sheet.
    - `sheetId` (number, optional): Specific sheet ID to read. If not provided with ranges, reads the first sheet.
  - **Output**: Returns the specified data from the spreadsheet.

- **gsheets_update_cell**
  - **Description**: Update a cell value in a Google Spreadsheet.
  - **Input**:
    - `fileId` (string): ID of the spreadsheet.
    - `range` (string): Cell range in A1 notation (e.g., `'Sheet1!A1'`).
    - `value` (string): New cell value.
  - **Output**: Confirms the updated value in the specified cell.

### Resources

The server provides access to Google Drive files:

- **Files** (`gdrive:///<file_id>`)
  - Supports all file types
  - Google Workspace files are automatically exported:
    - Docs → Markdown
    - Sheets → CSV
    - Presentations → Plain text
    - Drawings → PNG
  - Other files are provided in their native format

## Getting started

1. [Create a new Google Cloud project](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectcreate)
2. [Enable the Google Drive API](https://console.cloud.google.com/workspace-api/products)
3. [Configure an OAuth consent screen](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/consent) ("internal" is fine for testing)
4. Add OAuth scopes `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/drive` (full Drive access - required for creating folders and uploading files), `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/spreadsheets`
5. In order to allow interaction with sheets and docs you will also need to enable the [Google Sheets API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/api/sheets.googleapis.com/) and [Google Docs API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/docs.googleapis.com) in your workspaces Enabled API and Services section.
6. [Create an OAuth Client ID](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/oauthclient) for application type "Desktop App"
7. Download the JSON file of your client's OAuth keys
8. Rename the key file to `gcp-oauth.keys.json` and place into the path you specify with `GDRIVE_CREDS_DIR` (i.e. `/Users/username/.config/mcp-gdrive`)
9. Note your OAuth Client ID and Client Secret. They must be provided as environment variables along with your configuration directory.
10. You will also need to setup a .env file within the project with the following fields. You can find the Client ID and Client Secret in the Credentials section of the Google Cloud Console.

```
GDRIVE_CREDS_DIR=/path/to/config/directory
CLIENT_ID=<CLIENT_ID>
CLIENT_SECRET=<CLIENT_SECRET>
```

Make sure to build the server with either `npm run build` or `npm run watch`.

### Authentication

Next you will need to run `node ./dist/index.js` to trigger the authentication step

You will be prompted to authenticate with your browser. You must authenticate with an account in the same organization as your Google Cloud project.

Your OAuth token is saved in the directory specified by the `GDRIVE_CREDS_DIR` environment variable.

![Authentication Prompt](https://i.imgur.com/TbyV6Yq.png)

### Usage with Desktop App

To integrate this server with the desktop app, add the following to your app's server configuration:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "gdrive": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@isaacphi/mcp-gdrive"],
      "env": {
        "CLIENT_ID": "<CLIENT_ID>",
        "CLIENT_SECRET": "<CLIENT_SECRET>",
        "GDRIVE_CREDS_DIR": "/path/to/config/directory"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## License

This MCP server is licensed under the MIT License. This means you are free to use, modify, and distribute the software, subject to the terms and conditions of the MIT License. For more details, please see the LICENSE file in the project repository.

Commit message:

Add documentation for folder creation and file upload tools

README.md, after:

# Google Drive server

This MCP server integrates with Google Drive to allow listing, reading, and searching files, as well as the ability to read and write to Google Sheets.

This project includes code originally developed by Anthropic, PBC, licensed under the MIT License from [this repo](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/tree/main/src/gdrive).

## Components

### Tools

- **gdrive_search**

  - **Description**: Search for files in Google Drive.
  - **Input**:
    - `query` (string): Search query.
    - `pageToken` (string, optional): Token for the next page of results.
    - `pageSize` (number, optional): Number of results per page (max 100).
  - **Output**: Returns file names and MIME types of matching files.

- **gdrive_read_file**

  - **Description**: Read contents of a file from Google Drive.
  - **Input**:
    - `fileId` (string): ID of the file to read.
  - **Output**: Returns the contents of the specified file.

- **gsheets_read**

  - **Description**: Read data from a Google Spreadsheet with flexible options for ranges and formatting.
  - **Input**:
    - `spreadsheetId` (string): The ID of the spreadsheet to read.
    - `ranges` (array of strings, optional): Optional array of A1 notation ranges (e.g., `['Sheet1!A1:B10']`). If not provided, reads the entire sheet.
    - `sheetId` (number, optional): Specific sheet ID to read. If not provided with ranges, reads the first sheet.
  - **Output**: Returns the specified data from the spreadsheet.

- **gsheets_update_cell**
  - **Description**: Update a cell value in a Google Spreadsheet.
  - **Input**:
    - `fileId` (string): ID of the spreadsheet.
    - `range` (string): Cell range in A1 notation (e.g., `'Sheet1!A1'`).
    - `value` (string): New cell value.
  - **Output**: Confirms the updated value in the specified cell.

- **gdrive_create_folder**
  - **Description**: Create a new folder in Google Drive. Optionally specify a parent folder or shared drive.
  - **Input**:
    - `folderName` (string): Name of the folder to create.
    - `parentId` (string, optional): Parent folder ID. If not provided, folder will be created in root or specified drive.
    - `driveName` (string, optional): Shared drive name. If provided, folder will be created in that shared drive.
  - **Output**: Returns the created folder ID and confirmation.

- **gdrive_upload_file**
  - **Description**: Upload a file to Google Drive. Optionally specify a parent folder or shared drive.
  - **Input**:
    - `filePath` (string): Local file path to upload.
    - `fileName` (string, optional): Name for the file in Google Drive (defaults to original filename).
    - `parentId` (string, optional): Parent folder ID. If not provided, file will be uploaded to root or specified drive.
    - `driveName` (string, optional): Shared drive name. If provided, file will be uploaded to that shared drive.
  - **Output**: Returns the uploaded file ID and view link.

### Resources

The server provides access to Google Drive files:

- **Files** (`gdrive:///<file_id>`)
  - Supports all file types
  - Google Workspace files are automatically exported:
    - Docs → Markdown
    - Sheets → CSV
    - Presentations → Plain text
    - Drawings → PNG
  - Other files are provided in their native format

## Getting started

1. [Create a new Google Cloud project](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectcreate)
2. [Enable the Google Drive API](https://console.cloud.google.com/workspace-api/products)
3. [Configure an OAuth consent screen](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/consent) ("internal" is fine for testing)
4. Add OAuth scopes `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/drive` (full Drive access - required for creating folders and uploading files), `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/spreadsheets`
5. In order to allow interaction with sheets and docs you will also need to enable the [Google Sheets API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/api/sheets.googleapis.com/) and [Google Docs API](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/docs.googleapis.com) in your workspaces Enabled API and Services section.
6. [Create an OAuth Client ID](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/oauthclient) for application type "Desktop App"
7. Download the JSON file of your client's OAuth keys
8. Rename the key file to `gcp-oauth.keys.json` and place into the path you specify with `GDRIVE_CREDS_DIR` (i.e. `/Users/username/.config/mcp-gdrive`)
9. Note your OAuth Client ID and Client Secret. They must be provided as environment variables along with your configuration directory.
10. You will also need to setup a .env file within the project with the following fields. You can find the Client ID and Client Secret in the Credentials section of the Google Cloud Console.

```
GDRIVE_CREDS_DIR=/path/to/config/directory
CLIENT_ID=<CLIENT_ID>
CLIENT_SECRET=<CLIENT_SECRET>
```

Make sure to build the server with either `npm run build` or `npm run watch`.

### Authentication

Next you will need to run `node ./dist/index.js` to trigger the authentication step

You will be prompted to authenticate with your browser. You must authenticate with an account in the same organization as your Google Cloud project.

Your OAuth token is saved in the directory specified by the `GDRIVE_CREDS_DIR` environment variable.

![Authentication Prompt](https://i.imgur.com/TbyV6Yq.png)

### Usage with Desktop App

To integrate this server with the desktop app, add the following to your app's server configuration:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "gdrive": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@isaacphi/mcp-gdrive"],
      "env": {
        "CLIENT_ID": "<CLIENT_ID>",
        "CLIENT_SECRET": "<CLIENT_SECRET>",
        "GDRIVE_CREDS_DIR": "/path/to/config/directory"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## License

This MCP server is licensed under the MIT License. This means you are free to use, modify, and distribute the software, subject to the terms and conditions of the MIT License. For more details, please see the LICENSE file in the project repository.
